Calculator Project 

For this project I used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. First things first I added all of the necessary containers and buttons into my HTML. I then styled the entire calculator before working on any of the functionality. Originally, I thought the scripting would be easy, I later on realized that it wasn't. Setting up the basic math functions and the operate function was simple, since the operate function was just returning the result of the equation based on the operator selected. Getting all of the buttons set up was simple as this was something I had done before. The difficulties I ran into later on were that certain buttons could be pushed at will, for instance, the operator and equals buttons could be used before any numbers had been input. To prevent this from happening I had to disable buttons at the correct time to ensure they couldnt be pushed before the respective data had been collected. I also had to ensure that the buttons would be re-enabled when they were allowed to be used. This prevented errors from happening, but may not have been the best way to go about it.

The flow of the process is as follows: First, the user enters a number. Then, when the user selects an operator the number input gets stored in the firstNumber variable. Once the user selects an operator it gets stored into the selectedOperator variable and the user can begin to input the next number. Then when the user clicks the equal button, the second number gets stored in the secondNumber variable and the result is displayed on the screen, the user can then continue to operate with the results, the result of the equation gets stored in the firstNumber variable and then the process repeats itself. If the user were to try divide by zero at any point, when they hit the equals button the screen will display ERROR and disable all of the buttons to ensure they cannot continue to operate with the ERROR. Once they hit the clear button it wipes all of the stored data, and resets the display.

The most difficult part of this whole process was dealing with buttons. Setting them up was fine, but if the equals button or operator buttons were clicked before any numbers were input it would cause the calculator to break, which is what led me to disable certain buttons based on the current step in the process. I believe there is a much better way to do this, but I could not figure it out. I want to revisit this once I develop my skills a little more too find a better way to fix the previous bugs as well as add keyboard support. I did attempt to add keyboard support, and it worked, but it had many of the bugs listed before disabling and re-enabling buttons at certain steps of the process. Once I develop my skills a little more, I will return to this to add keyboard support as well as find a way to write the code in a way where I cant rid of the bugs without disabling the buttons.

